<!---
	This file is autogenerated. Do not edit this file manually. Your changes will be ignored.
	More information: https://github.com/MWSE/MWSE/tree/master/docs
-->

# attack

This event is invoked whenever an actor commits to an attack with their fists or a weapon, or a creature makes any attack. It occurs at the release time of the attack, such as the downstroke of a melee weapon or when an arrow is shot. For the player, it is when the attack button is released. A target is not required to be present for this event. For the actual moment the attack hits, use the `attackHit` event.

This event has specific combat mechanics occuring at this point. This is the time when the target has a chance to use its block skill, when on-strike enchantments may be applied, and when elemental shields do reflected damage. There is still a small period of time while the attack animation completes before the hit, so it is still possible for a target to move out of range (normally only seen with short weapons).

Lockpicks and probes do not invoke this event.

```lua
--- @param e attackEventData
local function attackCallback(e)
end
event.register(tes3.event.attack, attackCallback)
```

!!! tip
	This event can be filtered based on the **`reference`** event data.

!!! tip
	An event can be claimed by setting `e.claim` to `true`, or by returning `false` from the callback. Claiming the event prevents any lower priority callbacks from being called.

## Event Data

* `mobile` ([tes3mobileActor](../../types/tes3mobileActor)): *Read-only*. The mobile actor making the attack.
* `reference` ([tes3reference](../../types/tes3reference)): *Read-only*. A shortcut to the reference that is attacking.
* `targetMobile` ([tes3mobileActor](../../types/tes3mobileActor)): *Read-only*. The mobile actor being attacked. May be nil, e.g. if nothing was targeted.
* `targetReference` ([tes3reference](../../types/tes3reference)): *Read-only*. A shortcut to the reference being attacked. May be nil, e.g. if nothing was targeted.

## Examples

!!! example "Example: Show a Message when the Player Attacks"

	```lua
	local function myOnAttackCallback(e)
		-- Someone other than the player is attacking.
		if (e.reference ~= tes3.player) then
			return
		end
	
		-- We hit someone!
		if (e.targetReference ~= nil) then
			tes3.messageBox("You hit %s!", e.targetReference.object.name or e.targetReference.object.id)
		end
	end
	event.register(tes3.event.attack, myOnAttackCallback)

	```

