<!---
	This file is autogenerated. Do not edit this file manually. Your changes will be ignored.
	More information: https://github.com/MWSE/MWSE/tree/master/docs
-->

# calcEnchantmentPrice

This event is raised when an enchantment price is being determined.

```lua
--- @param e calcEnchantmentPriceEventData
local function calcEnchantmentPriceCallback(e)
end
event.register(tes3.event.calcEnchantmentPrice, calcEnchantmentPriceCallback)
```

!!! tip
	An event can be claimed by setting `e.claim` to `true`, or by returning `false` from the callback. Claiming the event prevents any lower priority callbacks from being called.

## Event Data

* `basePrice` (number): *Read-only*. The base price of the enchantment, before any disposition or event modifications.
* `castType` (number): *Read-only*. The enchantment cast type. Maps to `tes3.enchantmentType.*`.
* `effects` (table[]): *Read-only*. An array of the effects being enchanted onto the item. This includes the `effect` object, `magnitudeLow`/`magnitudeHigh` values, the `area`, `duration`, and `range`. The `attribute` and `skill` values are available as appropriate.
* `item` ([tes3item](../../types/tes3item)): *Read-only*. The item, if any, that is being enchanted.
* `itemData` ([tes3itemData](../../types/tes3itemData)): *Read-only*. The item data for the enchanted item.
* `mobile` ([tes3mobileActor](../../types/tes3mobileActor)): *Read-only*. The mobile actor for who is offering the enchantment service. May not always be available.
* `price` (number): The price of the enchantment. This can be modified.
* `reference` ([tes3reference](../../types/tes3reference)): *Read-only*. A shortcut to the mobile's reference. May not always be available.
* `soul` ([tes3actor](../../types/tes3actor)): *Read-only*. The soul contained in the soul gem.
* `soulGem` ([tes3misc](../../types/tes3misc)): *Read-only*. The soul gem being used to make the enchantment.
* `soulGemData` ([tes3itemData](../../types/tes3itemData)): *Read-only*. The soul gem's associated item data.

